Add instancing support to DotScene Plugin (#2109)
OGRECave/ogre: Docs/src/instancing.md

Instancing {#instancing}
==========

@tableofcontents

# What is instancing? {#WhatIsInstancing}

Instancing is a rendering technique to draw multiple instances of the
same mesh using just one render call. There are two kinds of instancing:

-   **Software:** Two larges vertex & index buffers are created and the mesh vertices/indices are duplicated N number of times. 
    When rendering, invisible instances receive a transform matrix filled with 0s. 
	This technique can take a lot of VRAM and has limited culling capabilities.
-   **Hardware:** The hardware supports an extra param which allows Ogre to tell the GPU to repeat the drawing of vertices N number of times;
    thus taking considerably less VRAM. Because N can be controlled at runtime, individual instances can be culled before sending the data to the GPU.

Hardware techniques are almost always superior to Software techniques, but Software are more compatible, where as Hardware techniques require D3D9 or GL3, and is not supported in GLES2

> All instancing techniques require shaders. 

Reviewer: this paragraph is confusing with ogre1, as instancing can be transparently handled by the RTSS. just remove it.

Author: I think that people shoud know that you require shaders in some way even if the RTSS generates them for you.

So I will put that... but good point.

	and SW techniques will saturate the Bus bandwidth sending null matrices for the inactive instances to the GPU.

The actual value will depend a lot on the application and whether all instances are often on screen or frustum culled and whether the total number of instances can be known at production time (i.e. environment props). 
Normally numbers between 80 and 500 work best, but there have been cases where big values like 5.000 actually improved performance.

# Techniques {#InstancingTechniques}

Ogre supports 4 different instancing techniques. Unfortunately, each of them requires a different vertex shader, since their approaches are different. 
Also their compatibility and performance varies.

## ShaderBased {#InstancingTechniquesShaderBased}

This is the most compatible technique. 
It is a Software Instancing technique. 
World matrices are passed through constant registers, and thus the maximum number of instances per batch is 80; which quickly goes down if the object is skeletally animated. 
This technique does not play very well with skeletal animation because of that, unless the number of bones is very low (3 or less).

> See `material Examples/Instancing/ShaderBased` for an example on how to write the vertex shader. 

Reviewer: this paragraph is not accurate for Ogre1. The according material would be `Examples/Instancing/RTSS/Robot` - however there are no shaders as they are generated by the RTSS.

Author: I understand, but how is someone who wants to use shaders be able to modify their own shaders to use instancing from an example?

I had to download an OGRE 1.8 source to get these examples...

I made a mini guide on which parameters to pass to the vertex shader, so perhaps it could be replaced by that.

Reviewer: you could use `ApplicationContextBase::setRTSSWriteShadersToDisk` which will dump the generated shaders and log which pass they belong to.
This is of course not very user-friendly.

However, I think the documentation should focus on the straightforward way and the advanced usage should go in a separate chapter/ tutorial.

 - HW\_VTFInstancing.cg (Cg, works with HLSL)

### HW VTF LUT {#InstancingTechniquesHW}

LUT is a special feature of HW VTF; which stands for <b>L</b>ook <b>U</b>p <b>T</b>able. 
It has been particularly designed for drawing large animated crowds.

The technique is a trick that works by animating a limited number of instances (i.e. 16 animations) storing them in a look up table in the VTF, 
and then repeating these animations to all instances uniformly, giving the appearance that all instances are independently animated when seen in large crowds.

See `material Examples/Instancing/HW_VTF_LUT`. 
Files:
 - Same as HW VTF (different macros defined)

To enable the use of LUT, `SceneManager::createInstanceManager`'s flags must include the flag `IM_VTFBONEMATRIXLOOKUP` and specify HW VTF as technique.

```cpp
mSceneMgr->createInstanceManager("InstanceMgr","MyMesh.mesh",
			ResourceGroupManager::AUTODETECT_RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME,
			InstanceManager::HWInstancingVTF,
			numInstancesPerBatch,IM_USEALL|IM_VTFBONEMATRIXLOOKUP );
```

## HW Basic {#InstancingTechniquesHWBasic}

HW Basic is probably the fastest instancing technique[^7], but is surely more compatible than HW VTF.

> The world matrix data is passed to the vertex shader using three `TEXCOORD`s (*attribute* in GLSL jargon) instead of a vertex texture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The world matrix data is passed to the vertex shader using a `float3x4` `TEXCOORD` (*attribute* in GLSL jargon) instead of a vertex texture.
```

The other big difference with HW VTF, besides how data is being passed, is that HW Basic doesn't support skeletal animations at all, 
making it the preferred choice for rendering inanimate objects like trees, falling leaves, buildings, etc.

> See `material Examples/Instancing/HWBasic` for an example. 

Reviewer: again this would be `Examples/Instancing/HWBasic/Robot` and no shaders
